---
title:  "Shadows - Enemy of Light"
category: Nocterna
tags: DnD World-building
---

> *"There are two things that have existed throughout all of Nocterna's known history - the Light, and the Shadows. The former provides us warmth, life and protection - and the latter threatens to destroy civilization as we know it. To what end, we do not know. And they cannot be allowed to succeed."*
> <div style="text-align: right; font-style: italic;">An excerpt from 'Shadows: A Study of Sin' by Haley Sprocket</div>

Shadows, Shadowkind or **The Enemy** are a race of changelings that emerge from deep underground, widely believed to be the manifestation of Sin. These shapeshifters take on the form of the monsters of myths and fairy tales, ranging from goblins to giants, from demons to dragons.

While their motives are unclear, it is apparent that Shadows kill and destroy mortals indiscriminately. Throughout all of Nocterna's recorded history, Shadows have been the enemy of progress and civilization. Today, both the Church of Light and the Slayers' Guild are dedicated to the annihilation of the Enemy.

## What is 'Sin'?

> *"To be mortal is to be corruptible. But Sin is not just criminal, it is easy - tantalizingly so. It is harder to be humble than to be proud, and difficult to be honest when lying is an option. We members of the Church are no less fallible than anyone else - so we must remain ever vigilant, and not give into our temptations.*
> <div style="text-align: right; font-style: italic;">An excerpt from 'The Book of Virtue' by Archbishop Gabranth</div>

The concept of Sin is integral to the religion of the Church of Light. One of their tenets asserts that all mortals are inclined towards Sin - and as such, it requires much discipline and faith to reject these base instincts.

The Church also believes all the sins of the world have formed a collective entity - a dark force that they call 'Sin'. Whenever we err in our morality, the Sin grows. Shadows as we know them are simply the physical incarnation of Sin, and that all Shadows share a collective consciousness. 

## How much of this is true?

The Research Division of the Slayers' Guild has done much research into the nature of Shadows, some which disproves the Church's established theories. It is now believed that Shadows do share a collective consciousness, but possibly a collective unconscious.

While the existence of Sin has not been proven, it hasn't been disproven either. It is clear that Shadows are typically drawn to areas where crimes or 'sinful' activity occur - though whether the Sin births the Shadow, or the Shadow is drawn to Sin is unclear.

## Powers, Abilities & Limitations

While Shadows are a changeling species, it seems that once they have chosen the form of a creature, they are stuck in that form until they are destroyed. There also seems to be a correlation between the gravity of the Sin that attracted a Shadow, and the power of the Shadow itself.

Shadows loathe the Light, and will avoid areas that are well illuminated by the *aurora aeternum*. They also seem to avoid *flora lumina* for similar reasons. These flowers are used to line the perimeters of towns, cities and roads for protection.

## The Sinful Seven

Throughout history, that have been reported sightings of seven particularly powerful Shadows, a group referred to as the *Sinful Seven*. Each represents one of the seven aspects of Sin, as laid out by the Church. The members are thus:

- Dryn, Pride Incarnate, who takes the form of a dragon.
- Carth, Wrath Incarnate, who takes the form of a demon.
- Lea, Lust Incarnate, who takes the form of a deva.
- Sorlais, Envy Incarnate, who takes the form of a sea serpent.
- Admeer, Sloth Incarnate, who takes the form of a world turtle.
- Gorm, Gluttony Incarnate, who takes the form of a kraken.
- Varick, Greed Incarnate, who takes the form of a lich.

Unlike normal Shadows, the Seven can freely change their form, though the forms above describe them in their most common depictions. The Seven seem largely unaffected by the *flora lumina* or the Light. They display significantly greater intellect than average Shadows, capable of language, communication and even manipulating mortals to commit crimes.

It is believed that the Seven are each born from a dark, particularly atrocious crime. The Church believes that if the source of these 'Original Sins' can be identified, each member of the Seven can be destroyed permanently. Unfortunately, attempts at finding the truth behind each Shadow's creation have been in vain.

## Destroying a Shadows' "Sin"

The majority of Shadows can be destroyed in direct combat. Outside of the Seven, there exists a few more intelligent Shadows that cannot be slain in battle directly, but you must first identify the source of the 'Sin' that drew them in. This can mean a great many things: recovering a stolen object, discovering a killers' identity, revealing the truth behind an affair - whatever the Sin may be, forcing the truth to come to light will force the Shadow into a vulnerable state where it can be destroyed.